CS585, Project 1
Student: Ovidiu Mura
Email: mura@pdx.edu
Due: Feb 19, 2020

Submission Details:
The PSU-CRYPT program is a block-encryption algorithm which uses 64 bit block size and 80 bit key.
The algorithm is a combination of the Twofish and Skipjack. The first step in the encryption function
is the whitening between plaintext and the key. Next, there are 20 rounds in which it computes F(R0, R1, round),
then in the last round it undone the last swap. Lastly, the output is a result of the whitening the result of
the rounds with the key. The decryption function performs the same operations except the rounds' keys
are in reverse order. The key scheduler generates different subkeys on each round by left circular
rotation of 1 bit and then store the new key to be used to encrypt.

Steps to run the program:
- unzip the compressed file
- Navigate to the root directory
- Place the change/update the plaintext.txt file with desired plaintext
- Place the change/update the key.txt file with desired key
- Run the following command: $> python3 PSU-CRYPT.py -ed plaintext.txt key.txt ciphertext.txt
    - the encrypted data is stored in ciphertext.txt file
    - the decrypted data from ciphertext file is stored in decrypted_ciphertext.txt file
    -ed argument in the command line will encrypt the plaintext.txt data and store it to ciphertext.txt file
    -e argument, will encrypt the data from plaintext.txt file and store it to ciphertext.txt file
    -d argument, will decrypt data from ciphertext file and store it to decrypted_ciphertext.txt file

Commands:

Files in the archive:
    1. PSU-CRYPT.py - the implementation of the block-encryption algorithm PSU-CRYPT
    2. plaintext.txt - the plaintext to be encrypted
    3. key.txt - the 20 bit key used to encrypt/decrypt
    4. ciphertext.txt - the ciphertext of the encrypted plaintext
    5. decrypted_ciphertext.txt - the plaintext decrypted from the file ciphertext.txt
    6. output.txt - the console output generated during the full execution of the program
    7. README - summary of the implementation and usage instructions

Commands:
>python3 PSU-CRYPT.py -ed plaintext.txt key.txt ciphertext.txt
>python3 PSU-CRYPT.py -e plaintext.txt key.txt ciphertext.txt
>python3 PSU-CRYPT.py -d plaintext.txt key.txt ciphertext.txt

